RHDEVDOCS-4249 - CMO config settings for topology spread constraints (#52118)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/monitoring-setting-up-pod-topology-spread-constraints-for-thanos-ruler.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * monitoring/configuring-the-monitoring-stack.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="setting-up-pod-topology-spread-constraints-for-thanos-ruler_{context}"]
= Setting up pod topology spread constraints for Thanos Ruler

For user-defined monitoring, you can set up pod topology spread constraints for Thanos Ruler to fine tune how pod replicas are scheduled to nodes across zones. 

> Doing so helps ensure that Thanos Ruler pods are highly available and run more efficiently because workloads are spread across nodes in different data centers or hierarchical infrastructure zones.

Reviewer: Doing so helps ensure
->
Doing so ensures

add '," after efficiently
efficiently
->
efficiently,

> You configure topology spread constraints for Thanos Ruler in the `user-workload-monitoring-config` config map.

Reviewer: for consistency, we'd better change to
`You configure pod topology spread constraints`

for example, configure pod topology spread constraints for Alertmanager in the doc is:
`You configure pod topology spread constraints for Alertmanager in the `cluster-monitoring-config` config map.`

Author: Changed

> You configure topology spread constraints for user-defined monitoring in the `cluster-monitoring-config` config map.

Reviewer: You can configure topology spread constraints for user-defined monitoring in the `user-workload-monitoring-config` config map.

Author: changed

.Prerequisites

* You have installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).

> * You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role, or as a user with the `user-workload-monitoring-config-edit` role in the `openshift-user-workload-monitoring` project.

Reviewer: add
A cluster administrator has enabled monitoring for user-defined projects

Author: Added

* You have created the `user-workload-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object.

.Procedure

. Edit the `user-workload-monitoring-config` config map in the `openshift-user-workload-monitoring` namespace:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-user-workload-monitoring edit configmap user-workload-monitoring-config
----

> . Add  values for the following settings under `data/config.yaml/prometheusK8s` and `data/config.yaml/alertmanagermain` to configure topology spread constraints:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Add  values for the following settings under `data/config.yaml/thanosRuler` to configure topology spread constraints:
```

The value specified has a different effect depending on what value you specify for `whenUnsatisfiable`.
<2> Specify a key of node labels for `topologyKey`.
This field is required.
Nodes that have a label with this key and identical values are considered to be in the same topology.
The scheduler will try to put a balanced number of pods into each domain.
The value `non-exist` indicates that a node label does not exist and that therefore the pods can be scheduled to any node, whether or not the node has the `monitoring` label.
<3> Specify a value for `whenUnsatisfiable`.
This field is required.
Available options are `DoNotSchedule` and `ScheduleAnyway`.
Specify `DoNotSchedule` if you want the `maxSkew` value to define the maximum difference allowed between the number of matching pods in the target topology and the global minimum. 
Specify `ScheduleAnyway` if you want the scheduler to still schedule the pod but to give higher priority to nodes that might reduce the skew.
<4> Specify a value for `matchLabels`. This value is used to identify the set of matching pods to which to apply the constraints.

. Save the file to apply the changes automatically.
+
[WARNING]
====

> When you save changes to a `cluster-monitoring-config` config map, the pods and other resources in the `openshift-monitoring` project might be redeployed. 

Reviewer: When you save changes are saved to the `user-workload-monitoring-config` config map, the pods and other resources in the `openshift-user-workload-monitoring project` might be redeployed

Author: changed
